### Thread Safety

It's not about using threads and locks, but about managing mutable **state** correctly.

Pattern of race condition: check-then-act, read-modify-write, put-if-absent.

Atomic classes could manage state thread-safely, but multiple atomic variables could not ensure that. Multiple volatile variables might not work properly, or read-modify-write variables.

Synchronized block ⇒ Intrinsic locks ⇒ mutex

**Reentrancy**, for OO, can be reused by same thread, not per **invocation**. Otherwise the child class overrides calling synchronized super.method will cause deadlock.

For every invariant that involves more than one variable, all the variables involved in that invariant must be guarded by by the same lock.

### Sharing Objects

Synchronized also guarantee **visibility**.

**Volatile** is weaker form of synchronization, making sure the update of the variable is visible to the reader without locks. Locking can guarantee both visibility and atomicity.

Use volatile when:

- Write is single-threaded, or not depending on its current value
- No participation of other state variables
- Locking is not required for other reasons

Thread **confinement** is to prevent other thread to access, example, Swing event dispatcher thread. JDBC connection pool, the Connection object returned from the pool is confined to the thread responding the request.

- Ad-hoc confinement: only for special case
- Stack confiement
- ThreadLocal, like a Map<Thread, T>

**Immutable** objects are not allowed to change after constructor. An object is immutable if:

- Its state cannot be modified after contruction
- All it's fields are final
- It's properly constructed, the this reference does not escape during the constructor

It is good to make all fields **final** unless they need to be mutable.

Example: Using volatile to publish immutable objects.

**Immutable** objects can be safely accessed even when synchronization is not used to publish the object reference. However, if final fields refer to **mutable** objects, synchronization is still required.

Safe publication includes:

- Initializing an object reference from a **static** **initializer**: *static Holder holder = new Holder();*
- Storing a reference to it into a **volatile** field or **AtomicReference**
- Storing a reference to it into a **final** field of a properly constructed object
- Storing a reference to it into a field that is properly guarded by a **lock**

**Thread-confined**, thread local only.

**Shared read-only**, immutable, no synchronization required.

**Shared thread-safe objects**, synchronized internally, does not require consuming threads to use locks to access them.

**Guarded objects**, need to be locked by consumers.

### Composing Objects and Building Blocks

Synchronization should be concerned by dependency fields, the operation should be atomic.

State dependent operations simply fail in single-threaded program but for multi-threaded, by waiting the condition might success. **BlockingQueue**, **Semaphore** are used.

Instance confinement, make sure the field is guarded by synchronization methods.

Collections.unmodifiableMap can be wrapped to a ConcurrentMap and make it immutable.

ConcurrentMap and CopyOnWriteArrayList are newer utilities for building blocks of concurrency.

BlockingQueue is used for producer-consumer pattern. BlockingQueue is acting as a synchronizer. Other synchronizers:

- **Latches**: until the terminal state, all thread must wait.
- **FutureTask**: like a promise in Javascript.
- **Semaphores**: semaphores holds a number of permits, when it's binary, then it acts like a mutex, which hold the lock for given resource. Usage is permission for a database connection pool.
- **Barriers**: hold the threads until they reach the barrier together.

**InterruptedException** need to be restored in a runable method that interrupt the current thread.

