### Executor Framework

Interface Executor with one method execute, which execute the Runable method. 
**Execotors** thread pooling will use below strategies to run Executor.
- newFixedThreadPool
- newCachedThreadPool
- newSingleThreadExecutor
- newScheduledThreadPool

ExecutorService extends Executor to add lifecycle control.
Callable is another interface to represent a future task.
By submitting a Callable to ExecutorService, it returns a Future which can call the method by using get. The Future thread will be blocked until the Callable execution finished.

ExecutorCompletionService is a subclass to use BlockingQueue to record list of Futures.

### Cancellation

- User request cancellation
- Time-limited activities
- Application events
- Errors
- Shutdown

Executor method handles cancellation by checking the shared cancel flag, but it might depend on the status of the running task.

__Interruption__ is a thread state, other thread call targetThread.interrupt() to inform the targetThread that it should handle the interrupted state in next convienent time. But it depends on the targetThread implementation. Thread.sleep, Object.wait, Thread.join take the rule stricktly and will throw InterruptedException if it detects the thread being interrupted.

Task should not operation the the running thread for interruption policy, because it does not own the thread, it could from a thread pool. Task should throw InterruptException to caller to decide what's the interrupted policy to apply, if InterruptException will be cached in Task, need to set Thread.currentThread.interrupt() to make sure the Thread status is kept.

UncaughtExceptionHandler used to implement method to catch and log runtime exceptions of threads.

Daemon threads, the threads does not prevent JVM from shutting down. When JVM starts, except the main thread, other threads including GC are daemon threads. The difference is when thread exits, JVM will leave daemon threads uncleaned when shutdown.

### Open Questions

- Unit testing for concurrent code?
- Concurrent containers in Java?
- How to make right servelet code?
- Concurrent coding in Spring?
- The solution of a thread-safe singleton?
- What is mutex?
- Concurrency for a database.